That's why App Engine is especially suited for applications where the workload is highly variable or unpredictable like web applications and mobile backend. App Engine offers two environments, standard and flexible.


Of the two App Engine Environments, Standard is the simpler. It offers a simpler deployment experience than the Flexible environment and fine grained auto-scaling. Like the Standard Environment, it also offers a free daily usage quota for the use of some services. What's distinctive about the Standard Environment though, is that low utilization applications might be able to run at no charge. Google provides App Engine software development kits in several languages. So that you can test your application locally before you upload it to the real App Engine service. The SDKs also provide simple commands for deployment. Now, you may be wondering what does my code actually run on? I mean what exactly is the executable binary? App Engine's term for this kind of binary is the runtime. In App Engine Standard Environment, you use a runtime provided by Google. We'll see your choices shortly. App Engine Standard Environment provides runtimes for specific versions of Java, Python, PHP and Go. The runtimes also include libraries that support App Engine APIs. And for many applications, the Standard Environment runtimes and libraries may maybe all you need. If you want to code in another language, Standard Environment is not right for you. You want to consider the Flexible Environment. The Standard Environment also enforces restrictions on your code by making it run in a so-called Sandbox. That's a software construct that's independent of the hardware, operating system, or physical location of the server it runs on. The Sandbox is one of the reasons why App Engine Standard Environment can scale and manage your application in a very fine grained way. Like all Sandboxes, it imposes some constraints. For example, your application can't write to the local file system. It'll have to write to a database service instead if it needs to make data persistent. Also, all the requests your application receives has a 60-second timeout, and you can't install arbitrary third party software. If these constraints don't work for you, that would be a reason to choose the Flexible Environment. Here's a diagram of how you'll use App Engine Standard Environment in practice. You'll develop your application and run a test version of it locally using the App Engine SDK. Then when you're ready, you'll use the SDK to deploy it. Each App Engine application runs in a GCP project. App Engine automatically provisions server instances and scales and load balances them. Meanwhile, your application can make calls to a variety of services using dedicated APIs. Here are a few examples. A NoSQL data store to make data persistent, caching of that data using Memcache, searching user logging, and the ability to launch actions not triggered by direct user requests like task queues and a task scheduler.


https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/appengine-guestbook-python
